# semanticMSE


Wiki-MetaSemantik: A Wikipedia-derived Query Expansion Approach based
on Network Properties
(c) IEEE 2017
Authors: Diyah Puspitaningrum, Gries Yulianti, I.S.W.B. Prasetya

Abstract:

This paper discusses the use of Wikipedia for building semantic
ontologies to do Query Expansion (QE) in order to improve the search
results of search engines. In this technique, selecting related
Wikipedia concepts becomes important. We propose the use of network
properties (degree, closeness, and pageRank) to build an ontology
graph of user query concepts which is derived directly from Wikipedia
structures. The resulting expansion system is called
Wiki-MetaSemantik. We tested this system against other online
thesauruses and ontology based QE in both individual and meta-search
engines setups. Despite that our system has to build a Wikipedia
ontology graph in order to do its work, the technique turns out to
work very fast (1:281) compared to another ontology QE baseline
(Wikipedia Persian ontology QE). It has thus the potential to be
utilized online. Furthermore, it shows signiﬁcant improvement in
accuracy. Wiki-MetaSemantik also shows better performance in a
meta-search engine (MSE) set up rather than in an individual search
engine set up.

Keywords: Wiki-MetaSemantik, meta-search engine, query expansion,
semantik, Wikipedia

Citation:
D. Puspitaningrum, G. Yulianti, I. S. W. B. Prasetya.
"Wiki-MetaSemantik: A Wikipedia-derived query expansion approach based
on network properties" in 2017 5th International Conference on Cyber
and IT Service Management (CITSM), Aug 2017, pp. 1-6. DOI:
10.1109/CITSM.2017.8089228. URL:
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8089228/

Slides (in .pdf) available at
https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BzIRZROJtylBbmF0R1hvZi1mNXc

Demo videos are available at:
1.
https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BzIRZROJtylBU3E4Q3E4dWk2anM ; (a
general overview of the recommender system),

2.
https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BzIRZROJtylBWkFNZXc0alJqNnc ; (an
example of query expansion using Wiki-MetaSemantik a.k.a.
SemanticMSE),

3.
https://drive.google.com/open?id=0BzIRZROJtylBbExXVUItVlhxSE0 (an
example of query expansion using baselines of WordNet and online
thesauruses).
